Leadership changes not keeping pace with Boston's demographic shifts,
report finds

   Updated: 2:41 PM EDT May 8, 2019
   By Chris Lisinski, State House News Service
   The Greater Boston region has undergone transformational
   demographic changes in the past three decades, rapidly
   diversifying in dozens of communities. But despite the
   evolution, representation in legislative and business
   leadership positions has not caught up, according to a new
   report.From 1990 to 2017, researchers with The Boston
   Foundation and the University of Massachusetts found, the
   percentage of nonwhite residents increased in every single one
   of the 147 cities and towns forming the Boston area, a contrast
   from more static rates in western Massachusetts. In a sweeping
   report released Wednesday, the team examined individual
   communities, effects on a range of economic factors, and how
   business and civic institutions have adapted."Greater Boston’s
   vibrancy and dynamism are some of our greatest assets, and they
   are driven by the wealth of diversity among the people who call
   the region home," Boston Foundation President and CEO Paul
   Grogan said in a statement. "This report illustrates the
   critical value of immigration to our region, and by diving
   deeper into the data, it broadens our understanding of the ways
   our changing population is reshaping communities, and how
   communities can change to better serve our residents."Overall,
   they concluded, people of color remain underrepresented in the
   political and business worlds. Nonwhite residents held 32
   percent of all Greater Boston jobs in 2017, but only 14 percent
   of high-level "leadership" positions, a Census Bureau
   definition that combines full-time legislators and chief
   executive officers.The Massachusetts Legislature still falls
   behind, too. In 2018 — before a handful of new nonwhite
   lawmakers were elected — 87 percent of lawmakers were white, 15
   percentage points higher than the state population. Among other
   groups, African Americans accounted for only 3 percent of the
   Legislature, Latinos were 7 percent, and Asian Americans were 2
   percent, according to the report."In broad strokes we find that
   these institutions are lagging behind our region's new racial
   diversity, often to troubling degrees," the report
   wrote.Researchers also used several school districts as case
   studies to explore how representative teaching staffs are of
   the students they educate. The disparities were significant: in
   Malden, more than seven in ten students are nonwhite but less
   than one in ten teachers are, while in Brockton, African
   Americans make up more than 58 percent of students and just 7
   percent of teachers.Boston has a gap, too — about 86 percent
   students of color compared to 42 percent for educators — but
   the report notes that Boston's share of diverse teachers is
   much greater than anywhere else in the state.Despite those
   trends, researchers found some signs of progress toward better
   representation. Six of 13 Boston City Councilors are women of
   color, and U.S. Rep. Ayanna Pressley's victory last fall marked
   the first time a nonwhite woman was elected to represent
   Massachusetts in Congress. At the local level, too,
   diversifying communities are working to improve participation
   in elections, the report found.To continue progress, the report
   recommended other communities follow the examples set by
   Quincy's engaged Asian American population and by minority
   business owners who help improve quality of life in their
   areas. Government, business and educational institutions should
   also make conscious efforts to seek out people of color and
   bring them into the fold, researchers suggested."Employers
   should more proactively recruit candidates of color and provide
   better mid-career support and professional development for the
   people currently on staff," they wrote. "Further, K–12 schools
   and colleges and universities also need to provide higher
   quality education to young people in the first place, so that
   diverse pools of prospective candidates are looking for jobs in
   all sectors of the economy."
   BOSTON —

   The Greater Boston region has undergone transformational
   demographic changes in the past three decades, rapidly
   diversifying in dozens of communities. But despite the
   evolution, representation in legislative and business
   leadership positions has not caught up, according to a new
   report.

   From 1990 to 2017, researchers with The Boston Foundation and
   the University of Massachusetts found, the percentage of
   nonwhite residents increased in every single one of the 147
   cities and towns forming the Boston area, a contrast from more
   static rates in western Massachusetts. In a sweeping [46]report
   released Wednesday, the team examined individual communities,
   effects on a range of economic factors, and how business and
   civic institutions have adapted.
   Advertisement

   "Greater Boston’s vibrancy and dynamism are some of our
   greatest assets, and they are driven by the wealth of diversity
   among the people who call the region home," Boston Foundation
   President and CEO Paul Grogan said in a statement. "This report
   illustrates the critical value of immigration to our region,
   and by diving deeper into the data, it broadens our
   understanding of the ways our changing population is reshaping
   communities, and how communities can change to better serve our
   residents."

   Overall, they concluded, people of color remain
   underrepresented in the political and business worlds. Nonwhite
   residents held 32 percent of all Greater Boston jobs in 2017,
   but only 14 percent of high-level "leadership" positions, a
   Census Bureau definition that combines full-time legislators
   and chief executive officers.

   The Massachusetts Legislature still falls behind, too. In 2018
   — before a handful of new nonwhite lawmakers were elected — 87
   percent of lawmakers were white, 15 percentage points higher
   than the state population. Among other groups, African
   Americans accounted for only 3 percent of the Legislature,
   Latinos were 7 percent, and Asian Americans were 2 percent,
   according to the report.

   "In broad strokes we find that these institutions are lagging
   behind our region's new racial diversity, often to troubling
   degrees," the report wrote.

   Researchers also used several school districts as case studies
   to explore how representative teaching staffs are of the
   students they educate. The disparities were significant: in
   Malden, more than seven in ten students are nonwhite but less
   than one in ten teachers are, while in Brockton, African
   Americans make up more than 58 percent of students and just 7
   percent of teachers.

   Boston has a gap, too — about 86 percent students of color
   compared to 42 percent for educators — but the report notes
   that Boston's share of diverse teachers is much greater than
   anywhere else in the state.

   Despite those trends, researchers found some signs of progress
   toward better representation. Six of 13 Boston City Councilors
   are women of color, and U.S. Rep. Ayanna Pressley's victory
   last fall marked the first time a nonwhite woman was elected to
   represent Massachusetts in Congress. At the local level, too,
   diversifying communities are working to improve participation
   in elections, the report found.

   To continue progress, the report recommended other communities
   follow the examples set by Quincy's engaged Asian American
   population and by minority business owners who help improve
   quality of life in their areas. Government, business and
   educational institutions should also make conscious efforts to
   seek out people of color and bring them into the fold,
   researchers suggested.

   "Employers should more proactively recruit candidates of color
   and provide better mid-career support and professional
   development for the people currently on staff," they wrote.
   "Further, K–12 schools and colleges and universities also need
   to provide higher quality education to young people in the
   first place, so that diverse pools of prospective candidates
   are looking for jobs in all sectors of the economy."