[Image: Great scope to enhance Qatar-Greece bond, says FM]  
Great scope to enhance Qatar-Greece bond, says FM
By QLNews • 1 week 6 days ago 
Share 

share
tweet
× 
HE the Minister was speaking at the opening of the Qatar-Greece Business Forum where he further underlined Qatar’s commitment to invest in Greece.

 

This comes under Qatar’s ambition to enhance bilateral cooperation between the two nations as Qatar continues to diversify its economy to fulfill the Qatar National Vision 2030, Sheikh Mohamed noted.

 

The interaction between Qatari and Greek business representatives signifies Qatar-Greece cooperation at a time when economic concerns are top priorities for both, he said.

 

Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs @MBA_AlThani_ Says #Qatar and #Greece Ready to Enhance Economic Tieshttps://t.co/YOxLG8AW79#MOFAQatar pic.twitter.com/xhxjA9VHYb

— MOFA - Qatar (@MofaQatar_EN) May 2, 2019
 

Qatar also continues to focus on enhancing the role of the private sector by providing the required legislative environment, developing cooperation between the public and private sectors, providing support to the private sector to increase its role in various economic sectors, and opening up opportunities for local and foreign investments, the Minister described.

He added that Qatar is keen to continue implementing major infrastructure projects in the main sectors such as education, health and transportation, as well as in the projects pertinent to the 2022 FIFA World Cup.

He urged the private sector in Greece to explore opportunities in Qatar, which will help strengthen economic cooperation and investments between the two nations.

Georgios Katrougalos, the Greek Foreign Minister said the historic ties between Greece and the Arab world are rooted in understanding and respect.

However, the trade volume with the countries, including with Qatar, is not reflective of the level of political ties, he underscored.

Drawing attention to enhance bilateral relations between the private sectors of the two countries, Katrougalos said a plethora of investment opportunities can be explored by the two countries.

Part of the Greek-Qatari business forum that took place today. #QNA pic.twitter.com/SPzxI9HPDv

— Qatar News Agency (@QNAEnglish) May 2, 2019
The Greek minister further said his country's economy is dependent partly on small and medium enterprises and the economic and social opportunities they provide, noting that the meeting of businessmen from the two nations at the Business Forum will serve as a significant platform to consider opportunities for mutual benefit.  

Chairman of Qatar Chamber HE Sheikh Khalifa bin Jassim bin Mohamed Al Thani said that the two countries' private sectors are working on supporting economic ties, with 2018 trade volume standing at $84 million.

He said the private sector in Qatar is looking to identify investment opportunities in Greece and study the possibility of creating alliances and establishing joint ventures in the two countries.

While welcoming Greek investments in Qatar, Sheikh Khalifa highlighted that despite the unjust siege, Qatar remains an attractive investment destination for many international investors.

 

Presently, there are about eight Greek companies and about 56 joint companies operating in Qatar, Sheikh Khalifa noted.

These ventures cover a variety of sectors such as trade, contracting, engineering, construction, industrial consultancy, and decoration, shipping and marine services.

The Greek PM also met HH the Amir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani during his visit to Qatar.

HH the Amir reviews with the Foreign Minister of Greece, the bilateral relations and cooperation between the two countries. #QNA pic.twitter.com/G2uxGMwGEw