By Anthony Noto 
 –  Reporter, New York Business Journal
Nov 16, 2018, 1:47pm PST
Pfizer plans to raise the list prices of 41 of its prescription drugs, or 10 percent of its portfolio, in January.

According to The Wall Street Journal, citing an unnamed source, most of the planned increases will be 5 percent, while three of the drugs’ list prices will go up by 3 percent.

One of the drug prices will go up by 9 percent, the report continued.

The move won’t affect 90 percent of the New York drug company’s portfolio, including newly approved medicines and sterile injectables.

Earlier this year, Pfizer was going to raise the list prices for more than 40 of its prescription drugs until President Donald Trump disparaged the company on Twitter:

Pfizer & others should be ashamed that they have raised drug prices for no reason. They are merely taking advantage of the poor & others unable to defend themselves, while at the same time giving bargain basement prices to other countries in Europe & elsewhere. We will respond!
A phone call between the President and Pfizer chief Ian Read eventually took place and the pharma giant apparently reversed course — until now.

Pfizer (NYSE: PFE) expects the new price increases to take effect by Jan. 15.

Meanwhile, Read plans to resign effective by Jan. 1. He will then become executive chairman while his deputy, Albert Bourla, will become CEO.

Pfizer, which employs more than 90,000 workers, recently announced a headcount reduction plan as part of a company-wide restructuring.

The pharmaceutical giant is offering severance packages that pay a base salary of 12 weeks, plus three weeks of salary for every year of work (up to 104 weeks). Employees who volunteer for a buyout will also get to take any vested equity with them, health insurance and other benefits at current rates for up to three years.

People who are 55 and have at least 10 years of service at the company may be eligible for early retirement under the program. They have from Oct. 16 to Nov. 2 to opt into the early retirement program.

People who lose their jobs involuntarily will be eligible for largely the same benefits under the program, which is more generous than its typical layoff package, the company said.

Pfizer has a market capitalization of more than $250 billion.