Updated at 6 p.m.: Revised to include additional comments from one of Booker's family members.

Dallas police said Tuesday that the fatal shooting of Muhlaysia Booker bears similarities to two other attacks on transgender women in the last year.

Booker, 22, was found dead Saturday on a street in Far East Dallas, and her killing has prompted demands for stronger protections for transgender people.

[Image: Maj. Vincent Weddington said Tuesday that Dallas police are investigating whether three attacks on trans women are linked.(Vernon Bryant/Staff Photographer)]  
Maj. Vincent Weddington said Tuesday that Dallas police are investigating whether three attacks on trans women are linked.
(Vernon Bryant/Staff Photographer)
Maj. Vincent Weddington said investigators are looking into possible connections to two other cases — an Oct. 21 slaying and an April stabbing in which the victim survived.

In two of the three cases, the victims had been in the area of Spring Avenue and Lagow Street just before the attacks, Weddington said. Two of the victims had gotten into a car with someone, and the third had let someone into her car.

In the October case, 29-year-old Brittany White was found fatally shot in a vehicle parked in the 7100 block of Gayglen Drive, near South Jim Miller Road, in southeast Dallas.

Police find homicide victim in vehicle on southeast Dallas street
Booker's body was found about six miles north of there, in the 7200 block of Valley Glen Drive near Ferguson Road.

In the April attack, a 26-year-old transgender woman was repeatedly stabbed and left for dead just after 8 a.m. April 13 in the 2800 block of Troy Street, in South Dallas. The woman survived and provided information about her attacker, but police have not released a detailed description of the man. 

Weddington said investigators have not found a definite link among the attacks. Federal authorities are helping to determine whether the cases meet standards to be prosecuted as hate crimes.

Police said  they are also looking for possible ties to another case, though the department has classified it as an unexplained death. A transgender female's body was found in a field in the 2900 block of Wilhurt Avenue in east Oak Cliff. 

Relatives of two of the victims immediately cast doubts on theories that all the cases are related.

Terry Brown, the mother of the victim in the October attack, said she is certain the killing was a robbery, not a hate crime. 

She suspects she knows the men involved and believes their motive was to steal an insurance settlement.

Although police described the victim as a transgender woman, she said her child identified as a gay man, who liked to wear dresses and wigs when he went out with men. She also said that though her son has been publicly identified as Brittany White, he identified himself as Traylon Brown.

Quan Booker, Muhlaysia Booker's aunt, said she thinks her niece's being transgender had nothing to do with her being killed.

"This was personal," she said.

She said her niece would never have gotten into a car with someone she didn't know well.

She said she believes police are trying to connect the cases to "satisfy the public." 

Before Booker's slaying, she was the victim of a brutal beating at an east Oak Cliff apartment complex. Video of the assault, which police called "disturbing," was shared widely on social media. 

Man beat transgender woman after he was offered $200, Dallas police say in affidavit
[Image: Muhlaysia Booker]  
Muhlaysia Booker
Booker told police the attack happened after she backed into a car April 12 in the parking lot of the Royal Crest Apartments. The video shows men punching and stomping on her. 

One man, 29-year-old Edward Thomas, has been charged with aggravated assault. Two other suspects named in Thomas' arrest-warrant affidavit have not been charged with a crime, including one who is accused of stomping on Booker's face. 

Booker, who suffered a concussion and a broken wrist, told police her attackers yelled homophobic slurs. Police said at the time that they were considering the possibility the attack was a hate crime.

Before Muhlaysia Booker was killed, she was 'looking forward' to life after brutal assault, friends say
Police have said they have no leads in Booker's killing, and they said there was no evidence linking Thomas to the crime. 

Her friends said she had been healing in the weeks since the attack and was living in a hotel room paid for by Abounding Prosperity, a nonprofit group that assists black LGBTQ people in Dallas.

Leslie McMurray, transgender education and advocacy coordinator for the Resource Center in Dallas, said the police investigation reflects the dangers transgender people face. However, she cautioned that authorities haven't confirmed the cases are linked. 

"All we have is information that we really can't connect together, other than that's a pretty dangerous place to be," she said. "But that can be said of a lot of places across America because being transgender pretty much anywhere carries its risks."

A candlelight vigil for Booker will be at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday at Mildred L. Dunn Park, 3300 Carpenter Ave. Her funeral is set for next week.

Police officials plan to discuss the department's LGBTQ community outreach efforts at a town hall meeting at 6:30 p.m. Thursday at the Resource Center, 5750 Cedar Springs Road.

Anyone with information that may help investigators may call Crime Stoppers at 214-373-8477.

Staff writers Tom Steele, Sara Coello and LaVendrick Smith contributed to this report.