It evolved into a late-session issue that won’t go away, one in which there’s general agreement that there’s a problem but there had been paralyzing differences in the Texas House on a solution, until about 75 minutes prior to a midnight deadline to deal with it.

And what’s at stake is freedom for thousands of Texans each year.

I told you in last Sunday’s column about the odd — even by Texas Legislature standards — history of legislation concerning the reality that Texans can be arrested and jailed for offenses for which they can’t be jailed if convicted.

They’re Class C misdemeanors, the lowest form of criminal charge, and they include traffic offenses.

Quick rewind: On May 8, the Texas House voted 126-20 for final approval of a bill limiting when cops can arrest somebody on a Class C misdemeanor charge. But, amid some confusion, a motion to reconsider was approved, and the bill went down 55-88.

On May 10, an effort to re-reconsider the bill was made on a Friday evening after some members had headed home prior to adjournment.

The motion to reconsider the bill prevailed in two votes, close enough for a roll call verification that showed that 27 members originally shown as voting were actually not in the chamber. The final verified vote was two short of what was needed to reconsider the bill.

So that was the end of the effort. Or so we thought. As happens in a session’s closing days — Tuesday was the last day for the House to take initial votes on Senate-approved bills — supporters of the defeated bill looked to tack it on to still-breathing legislation.

Rep. Joe Moody, D-El Paso, found it late Monday night in an inconsequential Senate bill that made technical corrections in criminal case record keeping. Moody is the House sponsor of the measure, Senate Bill 815. Late Monday, he won voice-vote approval for the bill and an amendment with a provision that could make cops think twice before hauling in somebody on a Class C misdemeanor charge.

Moody’s amendment said in cases when a person is arrested for “a misdemeanor punishable by fine only,” the magistrate handling the case “shall dismiss” it unless the arresting officer provides a record that shows the arrest was necessary because of “a clear and present danger to public safety ... that required the person to be taken into custody at that time.” It also would allow the arrest of people who refuse to sign a citation promising to pay the fine or show up in court.

Bottom line: A get-out-of-jail-free-of-charges card if the cop can’t show the arrest involved a clear and present danger. Potentially powerful stuff.

Too powerful, opponents said Tuesday when the bill with the amendment came up for a final vote.

Moody made it clear his amendment didn’t go nearly as far as the bill that had died. But he said this would help. “I am for the police,” he said, “but I am not for unlimited police power. The overwhelming majority of police officers are good people who want to do good things for their community. But good people are still people.

“People sometimes make mistakes. People sometimes let their emotions get the better of them. People sometimes lose sight of the fact that how we get there is as important as the destination,” Moody said.

He mentioned the woman whose 2015 death in a Waller County Jail cell after she was jailed for failure to signal a lane change (a Class C misdemeanor) was ruled a suicide.

“Whatever we think of how everyone involved in that case behaved,” he said, “the fact is that Sandra Bland would be alive today if the system hadn’t allowed her ticket to become an arrest.”
Moody called his amendment “incremental change” on something that needs a broader solution.

Rep. Phil King, R-Weatherford, acknowledged the problem but spoke against the change. “Mr. Moody is working on a problem here that’s an issue, a real issue,” King said. “But what he’s trying to address here is fixing it in the wrong way, and it creates a lot of problems in the law enforcement world.”

Texas, King said, has “way, way, way too many people sitting in jails today, thousands sitting in jails in Texas today, on Class C misdemeanors.” But he said the “vast, vast, vast majority” were arrested when subsequent traffic stops found unpaid traffic fines.

The solution for that, he said, is to lower the cost of traffic tickets, which can escalate into a crippling financial burden for some Texans and land them in jail.

And, King said, “there’s just times people need to go to jail. You cannot leave them there, even though it’s a Class C misdemeanor arrest. There are just times people need to go to jail.”

He cited fights and other low-level offenses. King said a requirement of a record showing clear and present danger is too burdensome for police.

When the time came for a vote on the bill with the Moody amendment, the issue’s rocky ride through the Legislature continued. A bill that had temporarily passed with no debate and on voice vote late Monday failed in the final 70-74 vote, close enough for another roll call verification.

The verification showed a 70-70 tie. It takes a majority vote to advance a bill. A tie is a loss, meaning the bill fell one aye vote short of passage.

And that looked like the end of that. But, in what’s becoming a recurring story line on this topic, it had one more life late Tuesday about 75 minutes before the legislative deadline. Moody had been working the floor with a revised version of the amendment. The House OK’d yet another reconsideration of the topic, and nobody objected to the new amendment.

“We have now broadened the language to make sure that breach of the peace is included, any danger to the public is included, any failure to identify is included,” Moody said, listing the situations in which he amendment would allow arrests for Class C misdemeanors. “All the things you heard on the mics earlier today, they’re all included in this amendment, and I move adoption.”

The House, eager to get on to other bills prior to the midnight deadline, quickly voted 81-52 approval to the bill with the new amendment.

It’s just the way things sometimes work in the Texas House.

The amended bill now goes back to the Senate where, sometime prior to the end of the session on May 27, we’ll find out if the Texas Legislature can indeed agree to a solution to a problem almost everyone seems to agree needs one.