City of Vancouver says it has paid off the debt it incurred finishing the Olympic Village in Southeast False Creek.    

Share Adjust Comment Print
Another sign that politicians are in full campaign mode for November’s municipal election: on Monday the city announced it had finally sold the last remaining units in the Olympic Village .

The good news is that in selling the last 67 condos to Aquilini Group, the city had finally gotten itself out of a long-term debt mess that was created when Millennium Developments failed to live up to its pledge to build the Athletes Village in time for the 2010 Winter Olympics. What’s really interesting is that the city now seems to have managed to discount the pessimistic views of Vision Vancouver Coun. Geoff Meggs, who had mused in 2011 that the city might end up never recovering all of the money  it invested after it took over the project, finished the development and began selling the units post-Olympics. He also raises the villlage financing issues regularly in his personal blog, including this one a year ago, “Solving the Sam Sullivan Olympic Village problem, $100 million at a time” , just as the former mayor was running for election provincially. (Sullivan won.)

Well, to be sure, the city says today that in fact not only did it fully pay off its $630 million loan, but got an additional $70 million out of Aquilini, which it will put (not surprisingly) to more affordable housing programs.

But, to be sure, politics is still alive and well in Vancouver; less than an hour after the city posted its press release, Vision Vancouver (the political arm of the mayor’s party outside City Hall) came along with one of its own, reminding people of how Sullivan’s Non-Partisan Association council of the day got the city into the mess in the first place.

And a mere three minutes after that, I got a personal message from Mayor Gregor Robertson (well, it was realy a canned political message since I am on their mailing list) virtually screaming the good news. (Oh, and by the way, don’t forget to donate . . .)

(For historical purposes, I note it was the Coalition of Progressive Electors government of Larry Campbell that was in power when the Olympic bid was signed, committing the city to building the village in the first place. The city council also didn’t write the financing agreement between Millennium and Fortress,the New York hedge fund that suddenly developed a cash flow shortage in the middle of the 2008 meltdown. But Sullivan’s NPA council did sign loan guarantees for Millennium because of the fact the city continued to hold ownership of the Southeast False Creek lands until after the Olympics. That was a requirement of the city’s agreement to hold the Games, and frankly, the hammer it expected to hold over Millennium to finish the project in the first place. History showed that may have been an astute decision, since both the village came to be finished and Vision now has a good-news story for itself just as it heads towards an election.)

But hey,  that’s politics.

Here are the back-to-back press releases, with their different spins, along with the canned message from the mayor. Read them and get ready for an election . . .

City of Vancouver

News Release

April 28, 2014

Final sale of Olympic Village wins gold for Vancouver taxpayers

All City’s borrowed funds repaid after City’s interest in Olympic Village sold; Debt paid off

The City of Vancouver has officially paid down the entire $630 million debt of the Olympic Village development, as well as recovered an additional $70 million.

Working with the Receiver, Ernst & Young, the City has sold its remaining interest in the last 67 condominium units in the Olympic Village development to the Vancouver-based Aquilini Group (AG) for $91M. This ends the City’s involvement in the Olympic Village project.

“This is a good deal for taxpayers, and pays down the Olympic Village debt that many thought would not happen,” said Vancouver Mayor Gregor Robertson. “As Mayor, I’ve been determined to ensure that taxpayers would not be left on the hook for a single cent. I am proud to say we have achieved that goal, and have done so in a way that has created a thriving waterfront neighbourhood.

“It took a lot of work to get to this point, but it’s great news for Vancouver taxpayers that we’ve paid off the Olympic Village debt and recovered an additional $70 million to go towards community amenities and public infrastructure. We are now officially done with our involvement in the project.”

“The City has shown sound business-like leadership that has made the Olympic Village project an attractive investment and we’re pleased to be investing in such a great neighbourhood,” said Francesco Aquilini, Managing Director of Aquilini Group. “Mayor Robertson and Vancouver City Council have helped finance a vibrant community that is now one of the most popular places to live in Vancouver. The Aquilini Group is pleased we can be part of this neighbourhood.”

The current success of the Village was made possible by the combined efforts of:

·          The Receiver, Ernst & Young, who took over the strategic sale and management of the Village in November 2010, including the leasing and occupancy strategy for the Village’s commercial space; and

·          Rennie Marketing Systems, who successfully marketed and sold the 737 market condominium units.

The work of Ernst & Young and Rennie Marketing Systems led to the complete 100% occupancy of commercial space in the Village, and 94% occupancy of the residential condominium units.

“The City has worked hard to ensure all the debt from the Olympic Village development was fully paid back and that taxpayers are protected,” said Kevin Brennan, Senior Vice President, Ernst & Young.  “The final resolution of this file for the City is a significant achievement, given the extent of the financial risk facing the City in 2009, with the obligation to complete the Athlete’s Village for the 2010 Winter Games.

Since February 2009, when the City took over the loan from Fortress Credit Corp, a number of steps were taken to ensure taxpayers were protected and that all efforts were made to recover costs.  These included:

·          obtaining very low interest rates for the City’s borrowed funds used to finance the Village;

·          the successful sale by the Receiver of the market rental buildings and the commercial strata space; and

·          the recovery and successful sale of 32 properties as part of the settlement of the financial guarantees provided by the Millennium Development Group on the City’s loan.

The Village, which is North America’s first LEED Platinum community, was designed, developed and constructed by the Millennium Development Group led by Peter and Sharam Malek.  The project was achieved in a record 30 months from commencement of construction to the opening of the 2010 Olympic Winter Games.

Situated on a former industrial site, it has been a catalyst for the revitalization of the surrounding neighbourhood and has recently been awarded the 2013 Urban Land Institute award for urban open spaces.

-30-

VISION VANCOUVER

Media Release

April 28, 2014

 With Olympic Village debt repaid, City’s economic position even stronger, says Mayor

Following the announcement today that the City has paid off the entire debt from the Olympic Village and recovered an additional $70 million for community amenities, Vision Vancouver Mayor Gregor Robertson says that the City’s economic position is even stronger.

“To pay down the Olympic Village debt is a big achievement, and follows through on the initial commitment I made as Mayor in 2008: to get the best possible deal for taxpayers by being fiscally prudent and bringing in professional oversight to the project,” said Mayor Robertson. “There were many critics who said this would not happen, and that taxpayers would be left with a big debt.

“The NPA said we should sell off the Village’s affordable housing, and that you could never sell condos in a neighbourhood that had low-income housing in it. We proved them wrong.”

In 2007, the NPA-led City Council of the day approved a deal for city taxpayers to provide a financial guarantee to Wall Street hedge fund Fortress Credit Corp, as part of an agreement to finance construction. This decision exposed the City of Vancouver to the entire financial risk of the project.

When Mayor Robertson and the Vision Council were elected, they took the following steps to bring transparency and accountability to the Olympic Village project:

Directed staff to make the Olympic Village’s finances public within 30 days of taking office
Appointed KPMG to provide an independent audit of the Village, and make it public
Created an external advisory panel of real estate and finance experts to provide advice on the project
Took over the Olympic Village loan from Fortress, negotiating lower interest rates with Canada banks, saving taxpayers an estimated $110 million
The Vision-led City Council also brought in the Co-op Housing Federation of BC to manage the 252 affordable housing units in the Village, creating the first new co-op housing in Vancouver in a decade. Once criticized for being a “ghost town,” the Village is now a thriving neighbourhood with a 94% occupancy rate in its residential housing, and a 100% retail lease rate.

“The Olympic Village was a tough chapter in the City’s history, but we came through it stronger, and delivered a financial win for taxpayers in the end,” said the Mayor.

-30-

Jeff —

Big news. Today, we paid off the entire debt of the Olympic Village – and recovered a surplus of $70 million to go towards community amenities. The final 67 condos were sold off for $91 million.

This is great news for Vancouver taxpayers.

When Vision was first elected in 2008, the Olympic Village was mired in secrecy and cost overruns. The NPA had given a financial guarantee to a Wall Street hedge fund, an irresponsible move that left city taxpayers shouldering the risk for the entire project.

I committed as Mayor to make the finances public, and to bring in professional oversight to get the best possible outcome for taxpayers.

Today’s news proves we followed through.

Many critics said we’d never get here. Forget about recovering a surplus – the City would be hundreds of millions of dollars in debt. The NPA said we should sell off the affordable housing, and that no one would buy condos in a neighbourhood with low-income housing.

They were wrong.

Over the past six years, you stood with us as we made the tough decisions to get the finances in shape. And you supported our commitment to build an inclusive neighbourhood, with 252 units of city-owned rental housing in the Village now the first new co-op in Vancouver in a decade – co-op housing that was opposed by the NPA.

The Village is thriving. The debt is paid off. We recovered a surplus of $70 million.

Let’s keep moving forward.
